We'll come back in this video we are going to prepare our BMI calculator.
So you are supposed to build a BMI calculator and of course you can go ahead and tried by yourself already
but you will actually get the exercise in the next video.
But for now let's create the UI for it first.
What we want need is we need this input any more and neither does button.
I'm going to pretty much create a form so I'm going to use a form lay out and let me direct that in
as you can see down the form layout takes up the whole space already and that's because my central widget
is here is selected as a lay out in a grid.
So if I break the law out you can see now suddenly this small little area here.
But I actually wanted to be the whole screen so I just take the lay out in a grid so I press this button
here.
OK.
Now in here I would like to use several elements and one of them is going to be a spin box but it's
double spin box so the user can actually select to enter something but his size in meters.
So it's like one point something.
And what he needs of course is a label here as well.
So let me add the label to the left and I'm just going to call the label body size and or a scale with
height 10 meters.
OK.
So that's number one.
Then another spin box but this time in normal one and this bin box should be the weight in kilograms
and it's just full numbers or whole numbers.
OK.
So I need the label here as well.
And let me add the label and this one will be weight in kilograms.
Then I will need the button to calculate it.
So that me Dragon a push button.
And then when you eat another label below the push button which will indicate the actual body mass index.
So I'm just going to add a number in here and then another label which will actually say that this is
the Body Mass Index so your BMI is.
And then the actual value here.
All right.
So that's pretty much our why for it.
I would like to make some changes though.
So for example pushbuttons shouldn't say push button but it should say something like calculate BMI.
Then here this weight in kilograms while we're at it I would like to show you something.
So let's say you would like to make this in a capital letter.
So if you look at this label you'll find that it has a property here for its CULE label for a text format
which says all the text.
Now plain text is just very basic text rich text however is going to be something that we can adjust
in a very nice way.
So instead of just saying height in AM I can make this in bold.
And how do I do that well with HDMI paging code.
So I'm using the strong tag here and it's a little difficult to read.
But let me click on it.
You can see height in it.
You can double click the label in order to see that it takes a little better so you see height in M
and N is now bold.
You can see the source that's the source that I created.
So I just said strong in so strong is only this in.
OK.
But you can now change the source any time so you could change generally the font size to let's say
14.
It's a lot more readable the same with this weight in kilograms.
You could change it from autotext to rich text.
Now you can right click on it and change to rich text.
As you can see now it could also change to font size here and make this in Bold and the same with your
B-M I so it's changed a rich text of that.
Let's make it 14 as well.
All right.
So that's generally how you can adjust it.
And that's a pretty good way of.
I'd say even though it doesn't fit with the size of this element anymore.
So we could change for example it's font size so let me go to the font size of it.
Here is the font.
And here to point size.
Let's go to 14 as well.
Same for this one point size 14.
And for that one as well font size 14.
So now everything is a little bigger and a little more readable.
OK good.
So how do we actually get those values.
Let me save this wife for now.
Let me quickly save it.
And by the way we will need the names right so we will need the name of this double box double spin
box.
We will need the spin box here and so forth.
So let's change those names.
And this one I'm going to change the name of the weight.
So this one here is going to be the weight I'm going to change it to weight.
I'm going to change that one to height and I'm going to change this one here.
So the label three should get a name as well.
That will be the result.
And now finally we only need to give the bottle a name and I'm going to call the button calculate.
So call Q late.
Ok so now they are a little more descriptive those names.
And now you can save it again.
And let's go back to our pide charm.
Let's build it.
So run the build Why file and I would like to quickly show you how you actually get those values so
we don't have this button my button anymore.
Now the button is called differently and I will just get rid of this whole code here.
The only thing that I will create is I'm going to just print new or sell thought why not wait.
And there is something that is called value.
So you can get the value of the spin box by just saying value.
And I'm going to do the same thing with the height and I can set the text of my label in the same way
that we have done it before same you are self-taught UI result thought a set text.
And here it can just set the text to something that one two three four.
OK so let me save this and run my main real quick just to see what you get here.
So you see 0 and 0 0 are given and that's the weight and the height value.
So I have entered where I used them in a other order.
So you could of course change the order here as well.
So to me stop it and run it again.
Now it has zero point zero and zero.
And now this is one two three four so the BMI said two one two three four.
OK so now you see already quite something but we could of course finished this BMI calculator but I'd
say this is a little challenge for you which is pretty good where you can apply the knowledge that you
have gained from the last videos.
So I'd say See you in the next video where I will explain you watched the actual exercises so see you
there.